# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2021-09-14

Present:

- Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
- Jesse McConnell (Webtide)
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Arjan Tijms (OmniFaces/Piranha)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Tom Watson (IBM)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Tomas Langer (Oracle)
- Emily Jiang (IBM)
- Jean-Louis Monteiro (Tomitribe)
- Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
- John Clingan (Red Hat)
- Scott Kurz (IBM)
- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)
- Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
- Werner Keil (Committer, Ambassador)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Jakarta EE 10 (standing agenda item)

* Milestones so far
  * EL
  * Faces
  * Servlet?
  * CDI
  * Activation
  * Mail
  * JAX-B
  * JAX-WS
  * SAAJ

### Statement regarding the deprecation of Java SE SecurityManager (Arjan)

* GitHub Issue: https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/406 
* https://openjdk.java.net/jeps/411 deprecates Java SE SecurityManager for Java SE 17
* Implementations that run on 17 should be configured to hide the warnings (in the startup scripts etc.) in order to avoid confusing the users
* Platform should give recommendations on whether Spec APIs should mark SecurityManager dependent APIs as deprecated.
* For anyone to give feedback to Java SE security team, use https://mail.openjdk.java.net/mailman/listinfo/security-dev
* **Action:** Start working on a plan for how to handle this.
  * Ivar will create a doc. Arjan et. al will contribute
* **Action:** Guide for users should be written up and published on the EE 10 page
  * Ed will create a PR for a statement
* Should we send feedback to the SE team?
  * Which classes that would be problematic for us if removed entirely, e.g. AccessController#doPrivileged
  * Scott Stark will discuss with RH JDK team how to mitigate for middleware

### Common functionality for Jakarta EE (Dmitry)

* Mail Thread: https://www.eclipse.org/lists/jakartaee-platform-dev/msg02792.html 
* Some feedback so far
* https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-platform/issues/405 
* Please join the discussion, we will revisit later (next platform call)
