# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2020-07-21

Present:

- Kevin Sutter (IBM)
- BJ Hargrave (IBM)
- Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
- Paul Nicolucci (IBM)
- Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)
- Scott Stark (Red Hat)
- Nitin Dahyabhai (Eclipse WTP)
- Steve Millidge (Payara)
- Jonathan Gallimore (Tomitribe)
- Alessio Soldano (Red Hat)
- Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
- Jason Mehrens (Individual)
- Tanja Obradovic (Eclipse Foundation)
- Andy McCright (IBM)
- Werner Keil (Individual)
- Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)
- Ed Bratt (Oracle)


## Agenda

### [SM] Needs of specifications to have milestone releases of GlassFish to certify against?

* Minutes:
   * Nightly builds good enough for many cases, https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.glassfish/downloads
   * BV and CDI (and others) need a version of GF that has the corresponding implementation updates integrated
   * Decided weekly releases of GlassFish ready Monday morning that can be referenced from the TCK docs. Keep a reasonable number of releases.

### [SM] Question to the TCK team RE: GlassFish for prioritisation which specs of the TCK are passing, have a small number of failures, have large number of failures?

* Minutes:
   * Ed Bratt will take action to follow-up with Scott Marlow.
   * Platform TCK Results:
      * Latest run (though only a sub-set) results are here: https://ci.eclipse.org/jakartaee-tck/job/jakartaeetck-nightly-run-master/65/junit-reports-with-handlebars/testSuitesOverview.html
   * Alwin is going to start a full run. He says check here (look for JUnit reports) in about 12 hours (about 9 PM PDT 7/21): https://ci.eclipse.org/jakartaee-tck/job/eftl-jakartaeetck-run-900

### [SMS] Need some centralized tracking of updates to platform API

* Minutes
   1. Is the platform project updated with the API?  Same for Glassfish.  (Checklist should be updated to include that as well.)
   2. Status of the TCK
      * Link to all the specificationsâ€™ PRs (https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-ee4j/projects/17#column-7346449 )
      * Scott Stark will mock up a page and then we can figure out where to house it and make it easy to update.

### [Werner] Jakarta EE 9 Module Name Analysis

* https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1g8jYG0JixO3wzZkpeyU1LMIQRhbnZ76kGtdMFE8mieE/edit#gid=0
* Minutes:
   * Werner went through the status
   * Discussed how we should handle the module names
   * Fix the broken ones? Ignore and ship as they are? Or fix them all?
   * Explicit automatic module names that are wrong (java.*) must be changed
   * Implicit automatic module names (no descriptor) ok for this release
   * Components can update if they want to, but ok to leave as is
   * Should be brought up to the Spec Committee for input
   * Werner will complete the spreadsheet for the next call
