# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2023-05-16

Present:

* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Tom Watson (IBM)
* Ed Burns (MSFT)
* Tanja Obradovic (Eclipse Foundation)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Lukas Jungmann (Oracle)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* Cesar Hernández (Tomitribe)
* Nathan Erwin (Individual)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Oops! jakartaee/jakartaee-platform
* [https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-platform/issues/679](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-platform/issues/679)
* Added two additional repos for branch rename
* Ed and Arjan will meet in a separate forum to assess the job to be done to fix it.
    * Werner: The GH pages are affected: https://eclipse-ee4j.github.io/jakartaee-platform/ fix the README

### ACTION: Getting all specs through Plan Review
* [https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-platform/issues/681](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-platform/issues/681)
* Still de-emphasizing any discussion of “merging” specs, however, I do want to clarify what Arjan is suggesting. Is it merging Eclipse Projects **or** merging actual specs (ASCIIDOC content).
* Partition list:
    * Arjan to define partition, Ed takes the ones Arjan does not choose.
    * Please add yourself here to opt out and state that you already have your plan review workflow in progress
        * Scott Stark, CDI has committed to May 30th date
        * Lukas Jungman, Persistence - ongoing planning towards submission of the plan by the end of May ‘23

### ACTION: Get Jakarta EE 11 Release Plan [DRAFT](https://jakartaee.github.io/jakartaee-platform/jakartaee11/JakartaEE11ReleasePlan) ([source link](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-platform/blob/gh-pages/jakartaee11/JakartaEE11ReleasePlan.md)) beyond **DRAFT** state
* [E11 labeled issues](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-platform/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AEE11)
* Wave discussion: see [https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-platform/issues/685](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-platform/issues/685)
* Nathan brought up the question of what about the proposed new specs?
    * Resolved to get a sufficiently done version in 685 and then apply the proposed new specs. This is not an official endorsement of the inclusion of that new spec in EE11, but it’s useful to think about it now.
    * On the platform-dev list, compare wave list from 685 with wave list from [https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-platform/blob/gh-pages/jakartaee11/JakartaEE11ReleasePlan.md](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-platform/blob/gh-pages/jakartaee11/JakartaEE11ReleasePlan.md)
    * Action: Ed to create “diff” style to start off discussion.

### [Emily] The [TCK challenge template](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-platform/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/tck_challenge.md) is ready to be replicated in all Jakarta EE specs
* The desired action is to make it so each component spec has a file at this path
    * **.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/tck_challenge.md** whose content is [this file](https://github.com/jakartaee/jakartaee-platform/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/tck_challenge.md).
* This will cause the new template to be offered to users when they select **New Issue**.
* Action: Ivar will pull off the shelf some old automation that can do the above “desired action”.
* Script that batch-creates issues: [https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-release](https://github.com/eclipse-ee4j/jakartaee-release) 

### MicroProfile and Jakarta EE security update
* Meeting happened on the 11th.
* Summary - [minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YEcAQLvGLqATJhnARbi6lKoBS1B0K2Ma_ogYgq2C-eI/edit#heading=h.nn07ohuzd0bs)
    * Created a high level draft for the bridge spec
        * Annotations
        * TCKs
        * To be decided: where the bridge spec lives
            * Closer to Jakarta EE, because it is an addendum to Jakarta Security
    * In the next call: decide where the [bridge spec](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1L7BQSxMG50lXHr0ntrxVmOUYg34LcaEdBpciriWa9p0/edit) lives.
        * Maybe even an addendum in the actual spec.
* Dmitry surfaced that it needs to be discussed in some other venue than the “one off” meeting series that Emily has been coordinating.
    * I wanted to redirect this point to acknowledge that Dmitry’s point is 100% valid. We do need a forum for resolving interop matters between Jakarta EE and MicroProfile. **However** I want to see this particular instance of the interop problem, security interop, resolved and **then** use the manner of resolution to explore and resolve the problem Dmitry validly observes.

### [Tanja] Mailing list subscription management

### [EclipseCon 2013 CfP](https://www.eclipsecon.org/2023/cfp) is open until June 16th
* Submit your Jakarta EE talks there!
