# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2023-09-26

Present:

* Jan Westerkamp (iJUG)
* Ed Burns (MSFT)
* Arjan Tijms (OmniFish)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Emily Jiang (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Tom Watson (IBM)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)
* Petr Aubrecht (Payara)
* Dmitry Kornilov (Oracle)
* David Matějček (OmniFish)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)
* Scott Stark (Red Hat)
* Cesar Hernandez (Tomitribe)
* Kenji Kazumura (Fujitsu)

## Agenda and Minutes

### EE &lt; 11 meeting: [https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/206](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/206)

### Milestone releases
* Communicate M1 date. **December 5 proposed**
    * How to communicate:
        * Platform project dev list
        * Individual emails to component spec leads
        * Spec leads mailing list 
        * Spec project list for each component spec
    * What to communicate:
        * Requirements from below
        * You must (component spec) do a milestone M1 release by pre-2023-11-28.
            * You should be able to put at least one of the new features in your release plan into this M1.
            * If you can’t do that, release the previous version **as** M1.
        * By the way, on M2 you will need to have
            * TCK
            * Implementation
* What is the audience of M1?
    * ~~An end user artifact?~~
    * The vendors.
* What are the requirements of M1
    * API jar
    * Spec document
    * Javadocs
    * XML schemas (if the spec has XML schemas)
* Optional for M1
    * TCK
    * Implementation
* Which repository to stage the artifacts for M1?
    * Maven central

### Start with a SNAPSHOT release before M1
* The audience for this would be ourselves.
* The repository is non-Maven-central staging repo
    * [https://jakarta.oss.sonatype.org/#welcome](https://jakarta.oss.sonatype.org/#welcome) 

### Discussion about the meaning of maven central vis a vis Cyber Resilience Act.
* Eclipse open letter [Open Letter to the European Commission on the Cyber Resilience Act | Eclipse News, Eclipse in the News, Eclipse Announcement](https://newsroom.eclipse.org/news/announcements/open-letter-european-commission-cyber-resilience-act?hsCtaTracking=4d0a87b8-9541-4d9f-8f4a-85e7b9111a47%7C3a9afa66-5079-43a7-ba70-29fa58ed7fd2)
    * [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gp_BxWVHLsY](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gp_BxWVHLsY)
    * [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AmsM5_5QO5A](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AmsM5_5QO5A)
* Jan and Arjan dissent that Maven central should be used for M1.
* Vendors want Maven central used for M1.
* Ed would like to make sure that our community has at least made a request of the vendors to expand their view of what is an acceptable repo to pull from for a non-final release.
    * Vendors: because we have a requirement for reproducible builds, **for all builds, even things the vendors do not ship**, we must only use an immutable repository. Therefore, we cannot depend on a mutable repo.

### [Jea-102](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/102) Edit spec document to apply the ruling of the spec committee regarding optional specifications. Seeking assignee for subtasks.

### [Jea-201](https://dev.azure.com/jakarta-ee-azdo/jakarta-ee-azdo/_workitems/edit/201) Schemas
* [https://jakartaee.github.io/platform/publish-xml-schemas](https://jakartaee.github.io/platform/publish-xml-schemas)

### Follow up from last week regarding exception sought by Faces regarding backward compatibility requirements
* Emily **did** bring this up at the previous spec committee meeting. It was approved. \
