# Jakarta EE Platform Call

Date: 2022-10-25

Present (please put your name down here to mark yourself as present…):

* Jared Anderson (IBM)
* Jim Krueger (IBM)
* Nathan Rauh (IBM)
* Thomas Watson (IBM)
* Scott Marlow (Red Hat)
* John Clingan (Red Hat)
* Ed Bratt (Oracle)
* Abraham Marín-Pérez (LJC)
* Ivar Grimstad (Eclipse Foundation)
* Werner Keil (Ambassador/Committer)
* Nathan Erwin (Individual)
* César Hernández (Tomitribe)
* Brian Stansberry (Red Hat)

## Agenda and Minutes

### Takeaways from the Community discussions (EclipseCon + JavaOne) \
* Predictability around releases
    * When the release is (cadence)
    * Java SE version 

* Should we jump on the release train model?
    * Eg. fixed dates for Milestones/Releases in order to make it to the platform release (that is released at the same time each year)
        * Milestone should be spec, api, and TCK (tests for new features added)
    * One year/two years?  June after the Java SE LTS release?
    * Should poll about cadence length before settling on one
        * Omnifaces survey showed that 1 year is favorable
        * Need more data points
    * Should also investigate about the “amount of features” in a release is enough
    * Release process must be improved to be able to deliver predictable releases
        * Dependencies
        * Reduce number of waves
        * TCK
    * Need more contributors for the TCKs
        * Refactoring of the TCK will help remove the barrier of contributing to the 
        * TCK
        * How can we get the spec projects to be represented on the monthly TCK calls? 

    * Encourage spec projects to use calls/meetings more in addition to the mailing lists 

* Should we abandon semver on the Platform Level?
    * Individual specs should still use semver
    * For predictability 

* How do we handle the architecture/design/restriction incorporated in the platform specification
    * Must find a way of handle this
    * The platform is more than a container containing a list of individual specifications
    * How can we evolve specs and platform to be able to release larger chunks of functionality over several releases (e.g. like it is done for Project Loom in OpenJDK) 

* Feedback around the namespace change
    * Concern around third party libraries that are not maintained 
    * Not much concern around the actual migration of their own apps
*  

### Agenda for Next Week’s monthly call

* Make sure the spec projects show up